Hey everyone, and thanks for jumping
back into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about
Bitcoin, and we're going to discuss the
brief window of weakness that often
occurs in July of midterm years after a
pretty brutal uh beat down in the price
of Bitcoin going into in a late June. If
you guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on Into the Cryptoverse Premium
at intothecryptoverse.com.
And also, as I've said previously as
well,
make sure you guys check out the first
ITC conference. Link to that will be in
the description below.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, we've
put out a lot of videos on this, the
4-year cycle and and how the simulation
is confirmed, but basically it's sort of
tied around the idea that
you know, like June, late June, early
July often marks the low in the market.
You can see June of 2022 and and of
course June of 2018.
And then what often happens is you get
some type of
counter move out of it that then tops
out in like late July
or in like mid-August.
That's just what happens, right? That's
just what happens.
And
la- in in 2018, we had a brief move up,
and then we had like a a down week, and
then in in sort of like mid-July going
into around the time the inflation
report came out, and then a larger move
on the other side
of or sorry, in the back half of July,
and ultimately it basically just got
rejected around the 21-week EMA, 20-week
SMA. So,
if you actually go to the daily time
frame, you can see that it was rejected
by the 200-day moving average uh back
then as well.
So, you had the rejection at uh in May
of 2018, and then you had the rejection
in July of 2018. And then basically all
the gains that Bitcoin had in July were
just given back in August in 2018. And
then also in 2022, the same thing,
right? There were some gains that to be
had in in July and and August in mid
going into mid-August and then all those
gains were essentially just given back
in August and September.
So, it's important to remember that the
4-year cycle does not say that the
market goes down only. What it says is
that there's a window of weakness in
mid-term years where major lows tend to
occur.
And and that within that window of
weakness, you can have sort of brief
pockets of strength.
And one of the ways to visualize that is
to look at monthly returns of Bitcoin in
July and see that a lot of times July is
in fact a green month. It doesn't have
to be, right? I mean, maybe this cycle
will throw us a curveball, but
if you look at 2022, Bitcoin went up
about 19 to 20% in July.
And if you look at 2018, it went up
about 38% in July. 2014, it was red,
right? About -5%. But on average,
Bitcoin goes up about 9% in July. Of
course, plus or minus 15 to 16%. So, not
super statistically significant, but it
does show you, you know, and one of the
reasons is cuz you're we're using some
of the years going all the way back to
2012. If we were to calculate this
average just say from say like 2014, it
kind of narrows that down a little bit,
8.2% plus or minus 13.6.
Um
But what you'll see as well is that in
2018 and 2022, June was was red, just
like it was in 2026. And then you had a
a green July, and then August and
September, so if you look at 2022,
August and September were both red. If
you look at 2018, August and September
were also both red. And in 2014, where
you had a red July, August and September
were in fact still red. Now, we had
there was this announcement this morning
that you know, strategy sold some more
Bitcoin.
And we had this wick all the way down
here, but the fact that we got it back
so quickly kind of shows you where that
seasonal strength that the seasonal
strength is there. That doesn't mean
that you won't eventually get a larger
drop and form a higher low. If you go
back and look at at 2018, that's
actually what happened, right? We had an
initial move off of 5700.
Coincidentally, right? Off of 5700, we
had a rally up to about like 67, 68 K or
6800. We came back down
uh to form a macro higher low in
mid-July, okay? And then in that maybe
not a macro higher low, but sort of you
had a low, you had a higher low, and
then you swept that low.
You swept the higher low in August. So,
I know it's not like we have a ton of
data points, but look, the simulation
continues to repeat itself. If it wants
to do something else, that's fine. I'm
not saying you need to your base your
investing strategy around it. As I've
said previously, DCA'ing Bitcoin in the
second half of mid-term years is
normally the way to go.
Uh and one of the reasons for that is
you get these periods of strength
that can happen that would could easily
make a lot of people sort of FOMO in
late only then sell the local top. I'm
sure there's a lot of people that sold
Bitcoin, you know, at the November low
only to then buy it back at the January
high. All right? I'm sure.
And then to sell it again at the
February low only to buy it back
at the May high. So, you got to make
sure you don't fall into that trap
because it's really easy to. And
what I've noticed is that every single
time we get these countertrend rallies,
a lot of people get really upset and
then they sort of they attack anyone
that was talking about the four-year
cycle and and the bear market, but then
you kind of fast forward to the next
window of weakness and then it no one
really cares anymore. Like, oh well,
well, okay. Fine, it it played out. So,
I think it's important to just kind of
recognize that throughout midterm years
there's like windows of weakness
and windows of strength. The entire
midterm year typically is a window of
weakness, but you can still have brief
counter moves and if you look at how it
played out in 2018, Bitcoin essentially
stayed weak until July and once July was
here, it had a brief counter trend move,
got a pullback, and then it had a larger
move back up to near that 200-day moving
average. Now, right now, the 200-day
moving average is currently
uh at around 74K. But again, it is
moving down relatively quickly and
arguably, you know, within the next uh
couple of weeks, I'm going to say by by
late July, the 200-day moving average
will probably be just north of 70K. By
mid-August, it'll probably be at 70K.
So,
we've talked before about Bitcoin
essentially being stuck between like a
rock and a hard place. What I mean by
that is that it's kind of in between
the 200-week moving average and then
also that bear market resistance band.
And I think it's going to be forced to
make a decision
a little bit later this year.
That's what I think is And by the way, I
mean even in 2022, you can see we came
below the 200-week moving average,
uh got a little bit of a bounce, came
down again, and then got a larger move
up into into July and August before then
coming back down, and then putting in
the final market cycle bottom.
Same thing, right? You drop. The only
difference is the next low was a
slightly lower low. Again, windows of
weakness and windows of strength do not
tell you exactly when the low is. It
just tells you or it doesn't tell you
what the low is or whether it'll be a
higher low or lower low. It just tells
you when it should occur. So, you can
see how it played out in in 2022. You
had a low in June and then a higher low
in early July. This time it was a lower
low in early July. But, the window of
weakness was still the same, right? It
was still the same. You had sort of a
wick down in June,
a wick down in June, and then a slightly
higher low. This time it was a slightly
lower low in early July both times. And
then what happened back then is we
rallied on up
into like late July, mid-August.
See that?
Came back down and then eventually set
our market cycle bottom in the fourth
quarter. So, you know, as far as I'm
concerned, the cycle continues to play
out. I know there's going to always be
mental gymnastics, just as I said for
the first half of this year, right? I'm
not saying you can't buy Bitcoin, right?
It usually just DCA'ing in the second
half of the mid-term year is the right
strategy. My point is is is this stuff
continues to play out in the way it has
pre has previously. I'm not saying it's
a perfect science, but it's the best we
have, right? It's the best we have in
terms of trying to understand what
things are, you know, what's actually
going to happen and what is the most
likely outcome.
And, you know, throughout counter-trend
rallies that we had late last year and
even going into May of this year, there
were all sorts of mental gymnastics
about how Bitcoin wouldn't go back down
to 60K and how everyone calling for the
four-year cycle was was clueless.
And yet it happened anyways, and then
those narratives are just so quick to
pop right back up
when you get the next counter-trend
rally. I would say the only thing more
predictable
uh so far this mid-term year than than
the bear market has just simply been the
emotions of the people that faded the
four-year cycle. You know, you could
basically say, all right, well, we're
going to get a counter-trend rally late
2025. We're going to get a counter-trend
rally off of the February low. We're
going to get one off the June-July low.
And every single time it's going to lead
to a lot of toxic emotions. Um but I I
do think that the cycle is just playing
out how it how it always does. There's
nothing wrong in my opinion with DCA-ing
Bitcoin in the second half of midterm
years.
Not financial advice. That's what I've
done and it's worked out pretty well.
Um
And and and my main focus, you know, is
is just how do you prepare yourself for
the next cycle?
You know, I have people saying that
anyone who follows four-year cycle
sideline. Guys, I mean look at the
chart. Come on.
This is a uh it
Have a strategy for Bitcoin because if
you don't,
your emotions will take over. Uh you'll
make some probably poor decisions. I
would say just have a strategy, stick to
it. Don't fall for the mental gymnastics
that occur every single week. And to
just say, "You know what? July off often
allows for a brief window of weakness.
And
make hay while the sun shines, right? I
mean, I I wouldn't try to fight this
stuff. If it if it changes for what it
historically does, that's fine.
Doesn't change my strategy,
you know?
So, uh So far, so good. Same thing as
always. Getting a rally off of 57,000
just like we got one off of 5,700 back
in in 2018. And we'll see if it
continues to play out just as it always
has and the four-year cycle completes uh
sometime later this year. And then the
from that point, hopefully we can start
a new four-year cycle. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe,
give the video a thumbs up, and again,
check out uh the first ITC conference
that'll be taking place in November uh
in Miami. Check out the link in the
description below. Thank you guys for
tuning in and I'll see you next time.
Bye.